Welcome back everyone.
Let's continue without him on unsupervised learning and the specific topic.
We're going to look at is clustering.
What exactly is clustering.
It's really the approach of grouping a set of objects in such a way that they are in the same group.
And this is core class to
in some way the purpose of it is that they have similar characteristics.
OK.
So that's really the basic idea.
And we could be I say Is this the task of grouping a set of objects in such a way that objects in the
same group are more similar to each other than those in other groups.
So that's basically what Wikipedia actually highlighted.
There are some examples in terms of application for this.
There is of course the natural language processing and IP clustering them or similar documents together.
Computer vision in terms of identifying cards dogs cars dolphins things are.
Stock markets in terms of clustering similar companies together rather than the traditional labelling
of IT market segmentation or customer segmentation.
So that's really some of the application for clustering.
As I mentioned briefly before Unsupervised Learning really is one that we don't provide it with Target
which is allow the algorithm to identify the underlying patterns and classify them together.
There are a few types of clustering.
There is the connectivity base clustering which is based on distance.
And this one we will talk about which is hierarchical clustering.
There is centroid base clustering which is K Means Algorithm.
These are done by representing each cluster by a single mean vector.
There is also a distribution base clustering.
These are model using statistical distribution using the expectation maximization algorithm E.M. its
call.
There is also a density base clustering which is D.B. scan for these as defined clusters as connected
dense regions in the data space.
All right.
For a start I just want to highlight that we are using the email extent on machine learning extend this
is created by our SBT.
And if you just have a look at the his contact details Sebastian Rathke is the person who created this
extension to the psychic line.
All right.
So it's really use for when it comes to the day to day data side tasks especially in machine learning
tasks that you want to do.
So if you look at this you can actually very quickly see on simple bolt classifier which combines the
F One two three.
Very very quickly.
So it's a really excellent library and package that I strongly encourage you to make use of it.
All right coming back to our Jupiter notebook on collaborate.
The reason that I want to highlight the M.O. extends that because we are using the Parish Library itself
and also somewhat the basic ideas here in terms of the combination of classifiers.
So if you look carefully we have three classifiers we have classifier one logistic regression.
We have classifier to which is random forest classifier and then we have classifier 3 which is a support
vector classifier and we have an ensemble vote classifier which provided here and the weights are look
at it as such two onto logistic regression one and one onto a rainforest as far as SBC.
So in terms of the data that we have we just basically extract from Iris data and we are also performing
the core plotting so you can actually visualize what transpired here.
So in terms of the plotting we are putting in the one two three plus ensemble and big.
This is a for loop so you can have four charts here.
The actual fitting of it as well as plotting of the so called decision regions to allow you to actually
see the various and so core.
How does each of the algorithm separate the different classes.
Okay.
All right.
So let's dive into this.
So you have logistic regression images.
Zoom in a little bit.
So you have the logistic regression which are green and then you have the triangle and then you have
the blue.
There are some errors there.
Random Forest.
Notice is not a straight line so it's non-linear in nature.
So the blues are clearly there's a bit of difficulties with the green ensemble is a combination of all
three.
As you can see is non-linear as well.
Random for us it's very zigzag was very similar to a decision tree.
Okay so let's run this
okay.
So that's all sorted.
Don't worry too much about the deprecated module.
It will be updated once there's a refresh come through.
So the lesson based on these is these are what we call control to actually allow you to have some references.
So let's look at what's gone rate of hierarchical clustering.
There are a few types of aggregation or creation of clusters.
You have the growth narrative which is bottom up each observation starts its own cluster and pairs of
classes as much as one moves up to Haruki.
You can also have the divisive which is a top down approach and the observation starts with one classes
and splits are perform recursively as one moves down the hierarchy.
If this sounds like decision tree then yeah maybe that will be the direction that will help you in terms
of our understanding.
So in terms of the step by step you can actually also refer to the notes as provided here.
You can have in terms of the shortest distance which is single linkage distance between two clusters
to be the minimum distance between any single data point the first class there's any single data point
the second class.
So it's based on shortest distance.
The second one is complete linkage for the distance which is the distance between two classes to be
the maximum distance between any single data point in the first class to any single data point the second
cluster.
So first is based on the shortest distance.
Second line is based on the furthest distance.
You can also look at average.
You can use it centroid which is distance between two mean vectors mean being average.
And there's also one more which is what's method which is based on ANOVA based approach and analysis
of variance so it is an iterative process.
What it does is that minimize the total within the cluster variance so it's looking at the overall at
each step the pair of classes with minimum between class the distance are merged right.
So let's look at these step by step where we import the usual library we create blobs.
We store the x y and if we plot it out this is what you can see here.
So there's 1 2 3 4 5 classes clearly.
Now the question is can our hierarchical class strings pick that up.
So to begin with we import this from say pi thought cluster hierarchy and then we're importing what
dental Graham asteroid's linkage and the distance is based on linkage and we are using the award method
here.
So let's start with the dental graph.
Let me run this.
This may take a while because bearing in mind this is based on what distance so it needs to calculate
the every single point versus the other.
So looking at this this is a rather large dental Gram.
It's a little bit hard to visualize.
You start off with here and you split into two and then this further split into two and then continue
to split from there.
Okay technically this is how we will read it.
And the other alternative way to view this is to actually turn it by 90 degrees rather than top down
this way we can easily look at it and horizontally which is just as difficult to look at partially because
well it basically exceeded our screen.
One other technique that we tend to use is to actually truncate the DNA diagram coming back here.
Let me zoom out a little
one thing that you immediately you can hopefully get a sense of this is that look when do we actually
stopped dividing.
Of course at the end degree at the end of it they all individual dots or points on their own working
class that them and then for example this portion here is a cluster on his own.
If you combine them this is a cluster on his own.
If you take these whole lot it's a cluster on its own.
This is a matter of choice really.
And you can either cut it this way which makes it three classes or we can actually cut it this way which
makes it five classes.
What do I mean by cut.
When I say cut record that these are measured by distance Okay I can specify 75.
Okay.
If I specify 200 that means I only have one cluster.
If I say okay the distance is one seventy five.
Okay.
Before I separate them anything there is greater than 175 in terms of the absolute.
There's no unit here grade and 175 we split them into two which is what you have here.
Anything that's above 150.
Then we have three.
Okay.
Well you can say 75 and this also three as well.
If it's 25 then we have five.
So there's the middle of choice for you to decide whether you wanted to be split to three to five or
more.
That's totally down to the actual business decision that you have to utilize based on the core context
that you're working on.
All right.
So come this point what we did is that we say I'm going to draw a horizontal line at 25 which is one
which gives us 1 2 3 4 5 clusters.
So this is a class on his own.
This is a castle on his own.
This is a cluster on his own.
This is class on his own.
This is another castle.
So they're giving us five classes to zoom back in and they will give us if we plotted and look at it
this way in terms of truncating it and what you get now is this you will get this much simplified hierarchical
addendum Graham
so truncating it this way makes it easier for you to identify in terms of how many.
Rather than looking at a big hurricane or cluster 10 diagram now truncated is a lot easier to observe
and read as well.
Why is there six years.
Because we specify piece it could do six.
So that gives one two three four five six.
All right you can of course specify a smaller number that would actually change d or core anagram self
so to me I have not plot these run these cells.
Let me run that and let me first plot it with six
okay.
So I think that if I change it to three
they will automatically find where the point is and just cut it for you.
You don't actually have to do all the work or do it all for you.
Okay so that makes it so much easier for you to utilize this functionality.
Great.
The last part then is to.
Okay fine.
We have class to these into intelligence say we've been able to identify five six one two three four
five.
Class those here.
The question then is that given a point how do you know which class does does it belong.
The beauty of using the PSI pi is that you can actually retrieve the class by using the F classed as
function.
You can retrieve by either distance or the number of classes.
So here what we've done is that we specify the maximum distance of 20 Phi.
It will actually be based on the 25 and it will work backwards.
OK so based on 25 we will have one two three four five.
Okay minimum distance of twenty five.
And these are basically the So core clusters or death.
What is things at this point belong to cluster 1.
Point number 3 belong to cluster 5.
So on and so forth.
And what we're doing next is just to plot it out so that you can actually visualize it.
What do you have here.
You have X and you have the 0 and 1.
So there's basically zero on this one there and we actually for the classed as 1 2 3 4 5.
We use the number to denote the casters individual identity.
So because this is based on the color map prism you will have one being one color 2 being on color 3
being color my color.
So on and so forth so hands while you'll get here in the end is actually 5 colors.
K continue on from there.
You what we did earlier.
It's by distance.
This is OK.
We can also separate them by clusters.
OK so we just do it this way.
Now I'm specifying 5.
Okay.
And they're the KS already been specify and what I will do is actually it will automatically calculate
that yourself based on the clusters that we use.
Okay so this is based on K being 5 clusters whereas previously this is based on Max distance that we
provided the criterion being distance vs. here.
The criterion being maximum number of clusters right.
That's pretty much all that I want to cover for this portion here.
We start off we're talking and basically an introduction to MLS extend for you to utilize it for ensemble.
If you want to we can actually also have a lot of useful content for the purpose of clustering as well.
Then we move on to hierarchical cost clustering.
Using them was method and we're sure you how from pure generation of data using map blocks to using
the addendum grand followed by the truncation of the underground and then finally retrieving the clusters
of each of the points.
So that's basically the whole core idea of clustering and using hierarchical clustering to do that.
That's all on a cover for now.
I look forward to coming to seeing you in the next lesson.